The Mazda MX-5, the Shelby GT500, the Rolls-Royce Phantom and the 911 Turbo S. All vehicles that have absolutely nailed their assignment..

Add the Bronco Raptor to that list. We’ve said it since we first drove the regular Bronco: Ford got it right.

I was lucky enough to enter the desert once again with a Bronco Raptor, mere moments after the dust had settled from this year’s King Of The Hammers. I took my brother and brother-in-law and attempted to do what Bronco owners do, which is go out alone without a support vehicle and spend the whole time saying “See that hill? This could definitely handle that,” and then proceed not to do it because coward.

Saying that, we tinkled with some baja, we rock crawled and we sped up some sandy hills. All well within the comfort zone of the Bronco Raptor (and most probably a normal Bronco).

Unlike last time, when Thomas and I had about 5 hours in the desert with the Bronco Raptor, I had a full week living with it, which meant LA highways, parking in the city, grocery runs and canyon carving.

Out of the box, there is pretty much nothing the Bronco Raptor can’t do. I find Wranglers ridiculously charming, and their narrower dimensions and solid axle might win rock-crawling, but I’d sacrifice that for the Bronco’s better road manners. It’s size is definitely daunting, but its turning radius is impressive all things considered. And yes, it's loud on the highway.

The F-150 Raptor has a nicer ride, and sounds a little better with its tromboner exhaust, but the sheer road presence of the Braptor means that it’s absolutely loved by passersby. It’s for the G Wagon owner that has decided to stop kicking puppies.

Thematically, it feels like a petrol counterpart to a Rivian R1S. Take that how you will. But here’s the good news, I don’t think it needs the Raptor treatment. A normal Bronco can do everything I did on this trip. I know that because I’ve literally done the same stuff with a Badlands trim. The extra power is nice but the cost saving is significant, and you haven’t got to play your local dealer’s prick like a whistle to get one. 

Either way, please enjoy photos by my brother @danengelsphoto 

-@jamesengelsman
