To all my aspiring coaches out there, do not fall into the trap of coach-comparison.

You were created by God to be a weapon of mass creation and to support one another to be the best you were created to be while you are here on this earth.

As a coach, I guide my clients to navigate the dizzying and deceptive maze of the online world, which I refer to as “The Labyrinth”.

The more we immerse ourselves in consuming an overload of randomized self-help and marketing content, the deeper we sink into a vortex of comparison and self-doubt which keeps us in the maze of procrastination and business failure.

True coaches understand that the key to building a thriving coaching business lies in their unique abilities to deliver tangible, life-changing results for their clients.

And when you pair this principle above with the principle of knowing how to get clients and how to actually scale your business you will become unstoppable.

This can only be achieved by truly loving the art and craft of coaching and transformation and learning the ropes from someone who has walked this path for years.

I know this because I have worked with 12,000+ students online and offline over the last 14 years successfully and have taught thousands coaching tools and strategies so they can do it too.

Do you believe you are called to be a transformational coach so you can inspire and empower others to make a powerful change in their life?

My new season of Influential Coach - A four month LIVE online coaching high level Mastermind is now open for you to apply!

Over 142 coaches have graduated in this new program and have become certified to build their successful coaching business.

Are you ready to become a coach that gets clients and results too?

Would you like to make an extra 10k a month or more online coaching and using my transformational tools that I have been taking my clients through for the last 14 years?

If so then DM me the word “COACH” now and we can have a chat to see if you are the right fit.
