As I was leaving the gym, a personal trainer told me that I have a ‘prison body’. I’d never heard that before. I was insulted, but he was right (and hilarious). It’s hard to admit this on such a public forum but…I do oftentimes skip leg day. And guess what, so does the 2023 Toyota Highlander Hybrid. Change the badge though, and this thing is a Lexus. Sort of. 

I say it skips leg day because it produces 243hp from a 2.5L 4-cyl hybrid and takes almost 9 seconds to hit 60mph. The CVT also groans monotonously until the end of time while you do it. And somehow I STILL like this car. Bizarre.

And that’s not even the end of my complaints. The heated seats max out at 30-minute-old-cadaver levels of warm and the head-up display compass was stuck on North no matter which direction I faced. And yet STILL, I’m a fan of this car. Why?

Price. Optioned to the max for 59K CAD/49K USD, you get a comfortable, 35mpg, awd, three-row, nicely riding, well insulated Toyota that drives perfectly fine and has all the tech you could ever need, at the touch of actual buttons. The JBL sound system is good, the rear camera and 360 tech blows Honda out of the water and did I mention the seats are lovely? The ventilated part works very well, as does the heated steering wheel.

And the cabin, how is this not a Lexus? From soft touch materials to varnished woods, this thing feels like a classy product. First impressions in the driveway, I couldn’t understand why it only costs what it does.

Only once I started using the throttle did I notice the cost savings. Goes slow, sounds awful and CVTs can go die now please. Spoiler: I now have an RX500h in the driveway that truly demonstrates what a 4 cylinder hybrid, when paired with a six speed transmission, can be like.

But if you can get over that, I think the Highlander is as good as it looks (okay yes a Kia Telluride looks cooler) and no doubt there are those that would champion the cheaper non-hybrid trims, but my neighbour’s shiny new Highlander Hybrid has already been stolen off his driveway and shipped overseas (Sorry about that, Ian) so I’d say it's certainly desirable enough.

Words on the RX500h coming soon.

@jamesengelsman
