The Mazda CX-30 is pretty much a Ferrari. For two reasons:

1. It is adorned with a gorgeous red paint that makes me feel things. (That photo is unedited)

2. The infotainment is dumb.

I’ll get to that second point but I just lived with this car for 5 days and I’m mixed on it. 

It's very pretty. It also has a delightfully clean-looking interior and the ground clearance required to not be intimidated by LA’s silly dips in the road.

Like the other ‘subcompact crossovers,’ it handles like a hatch that’s just had a big lunch. It’s confident enough but compared to the GTI that I traded it with, it doesn’t feel nearly as tight, nor is the ride quality as good. I’m sure the torsion beam has something to do with that, as well as the heightened CoG.

There’s no denying that for $35K (US), a 250 hp AWD CUV with a 0-60 time of 5.8 seconds just needs to drive…fine, and it does. It’s powerful, though the 2.5 turbo trades fuel economy for speed (25mpg).

The steering is a strong point and it’s tuned lighter on the 30 than on the 50, which I'm very grateful for as it is far better suited to its class. AND in a rare un-Mazda like move, the seats are actually comfy. Driving position is good and its sleek exterior lines didn’t inhibit my visibility as much as I thought it might.

Rear seat space is compromised compared to the CX5/50s and annoyingly the back seats don’t fold flat. 

It’s missing wireless CarPlay and a good LKA. Also, Mazda’s obsession with removing touchscreens has reached its ultimate form. I include a video of me attempting to change the music with the dial only. Apple’s UI is partly to blame but all of that could have been fixed by letting me touch it. In fairness, my Audi was guilty of the same crime so keen marketers can now claim the CX-30 has an “Audi level interior”. Add to that, on multiple occasions since, the screen simply hasn’t responded to my inputs at all. The CX-30s way of telling me to ‘sit and spin.’

The subcompact crossover might be the least sexy class of vehicle of all time. But with soul red crystal clothing, good power and sleek looks, the CX-30 Turbo does what it can to make your trousers move. But it’s not perfect.

@jamesengelsman
