In a world where manufacturers are trying to make cars as ‘sexy’ as possible, it’s hard to want to make love to a $70,000 wifi password. But alas, here we are: the Lexus RX500h.

When you have a car for a week, sometimes it starts great and then it does things that make you a little colder on it. This was the opposite, I warmed to the RX over time. But not completely.

The good: It hustles. The last two cars I had this month (Mirai, Highlander) were both 9 seconds to 60, so the sub 6 second time of the RX500h felt like lightspeed. And it has a hybrid FOUR cylinder! One that makes, wait for it…

366 hp and 406 lb ft. That’s about as good as it gets for a 4-cyl this side of an AMG. It feels genuinely quick and doesn’t sound bad doing it either. The powertrain, ahead of cabin isolation, is by far the highlight of this car. Matched nicely to the six-speed transmission, it is both smooth and effective.

We said the Highlander and the Crown feel lexus-like in the cabin and you know what, the Toyotas are definitely nipping at the heels of Lexus quality now. This isn’t a huge step up and in fact the roof had a constant creak that I wasn’t able to diagnose.

The seats are great and the Mark Levinson audio is superior to anything in a Toyota but some things are a step backward. I don’t mind the bigger screen but toggling between carplay and the native app is completely unintuitive. Also, modifying the cluster requires getting to second base with the steering wheel touch buttons while looking at the head up display to see what menu you’re changing [video in carousel]. A seemingly complex and unnecessary way to “get one over” on a Toyota.

It handles its 4,750 lb weight pretty well but it feels heavy in the corners. The Highlander felt more spry even with the third row.

Styling may sell you on this Copper Crest coloured RX. And really it IS rather nice, but at 90K CAD as specced, it's expensive. The Germans and the Genesis stuff are stiff competition at that price. Given the choice, I’d stick this powertrain in the Highlander and call it a day, even if that made the Highlander $10k more. But if that was possible, Lexus wouldn’t exist now would it?

@jamesengelsman
