If EV adoption is surging, and ICE is still king, then Hydrogen is the awkward middle child. Consider that the Mirai is a California-only model and suddenly that ‘Limited’ badge on the trunk means more than just the $66,000+ price tag.

Filling it up is like filling it up with gas, except you have to do it at hydrogen stations which are few and far between (once you’ve waited behind the other Mirai owners, see photo). It then operates like an EV. In essence, this feels like a fat 4,300 lb electric Camry except it powers the rear wheels and rides softer. Make no mistake, It’s an incredibly pleasant companion.

The 300 lb ft of torque is immediate and smooth, although the 182 hp means that past the initial push it chills out HARD, achieving a 9+ second 0-60. It wins traffic lights, not quarter miles. I’ve included a video.

The cabin, despite the vehicle’s length (same as a BMW 5 Series) is surprisingly modest in size. The trunk isn’t huge either. But like the Crown we just tested, it feels lexus-lite, although a smidge last gen. Plush seats, nice materials. And a JBL sound system that ACTUALLY has some bass. The new Prius, the Corollas and the Crown would like to share some of that please.

It was $108 to fill up at the station from almost empty. That’s supposed to give me 400 miles of range but for some reason it was showing 285. Yeah not cheap, BUT IT CLEANS THE AIR AS IT DRIVES. And it also pisses out the bottom when you click the H2O button. So that’s fun.

In theory, this is better than EV or ICE. It drives like an EV, which is superior in every way for a daily driver and yet you can fill it up in just a few minutes. That's the best of both worlds, no?

I googled why it isn’t more popular and got this: “The vast majority of car companies have turned away from hydrogen because of the high density of energy consumed in its production, as well as poor funding and backing from governments.”

That and I’m sure all the would-be owners don’t want to pay 70 Gs just to deal with Hindenburg jokes all day.

The Mirai is an expensive way to drive guilt-free, but if you can make it work, more power to you. (And more power to the Mirai please).

@jamesengelsman
