Mk8 haters beware, I lived with the new GTI for a week and I loved it. Review:

Short of the Audi S8, of all the press cars I’ve had since arriving in LA (Mirai, Highlander, Sequoia, RX, Cayman GTS, Urus P) it was the car I most loathed to give back. The GTI fits my life like a glove.

‘Hot hatch’ is generous. Compared to FWD things like the Elantra N or Civic Type R, it's very much a warm hatch. It's got speed, sure, but it's very German everywhere else. Comfortable, refined, solid. Hair raising, it is not.

The key tag said Autobahn, but I accidentally had the base model. Which means this little 241hp manual pocket rocket squeezes in at a price of US$30,530.

Among other things, this robbed me of the upgraded Harman Kardon, the adaptive dampers, sunroof, bigger screen, fancy 19” wheels and leather seats. I can skip the last four (I love the plaid), but the only two I felt like I was missing were the sound system and the dampers. The ride was a little busy even on LA roads.

Seats are excellent, the driving position is ergonomic perfection and buttons aside (I’m coming to that), what a great steering wheel to grip. Lovely texture and diameter.

Practicality is astounding. I managed to fit our entire TH team’s production gear and everything my wife and I brought with us to LA in it. No small feat.

It’s delightfully zippy and well sized. Parallel park it in the city, easy. Rip through a canyon, easy. Slice through traffic, piece o’ cake. And all with four full-grown adults.

Aggressive shifting with the manual is not rewarded and is my only driving-related issue, especially the 1-2 shift but such is the price for FWD. The R fixes that and would probably be my pick.

What the R doesn’t fix is the interior. Mine had a volume knob (base model) but even still the steering wheel buttons are, at best, not at all satisfying. And two clicks to get to the heated seats after pressing the heated seat icon is dumb. But wireless carplay worked flawlessly.

I think the MK8 looks absolutely class. It takes the already handsome MK7 and streamlines it as if hit by a scirocco wind (see what I did there). I would own one in a heartbeat, interior gripes and all.

@jamesengelsman
